README.md, before:

# Software Prerequisites

- <code>python3</code>

  An executable named <code>python3</code> must be installed and on ${PATH}. 

- <code>pyqt6</code>

This Python module must be installed to be able to generate the
Tcl/Tk-based menu used for viewing the generated diffs:

If this module is not installed, the `view-review` will stop
with an error indicating such.

On Ubuntu, this can be satisfied with:

    sudo apt install python3-pyqt6


- Differencing Tools

  At least one of the following utilities must be installed to fully use
  this tool.

  - TkDiff
  - Meld

  If these modules are not installed, selecting these viewers in the Viewer
  menu will yield unsatsifactory results.

# Supported Viewers

This system currently supports the following side-by-side diff viewers,
selectable from the <code>Viewer</code> menu.

- Claude-QT (Claude-generated, experimental, pyqt6)
- Emacs
- Meld
- TkDiff
- Vim

# Description / Terminology


Change is omnipresent in the software industry.  To help you manage
changes to source, this tool enables viewing of uncommitted and
committed changes in a Git repository.

Before going further, let us take a moment to understand the
terminology used herein to describe the constituent parts of a change.
Each file contained in a change always has two components:


1. **Base file**

    The base file refers to the original file, before modifications
    have been made.  In most cases, the base file comes from the SCM,
    but in some cases, such as an `add`, the base file does not
    exist in the SCM.  When the base file does not exist in the SCM,
    and empty file is used in its stead.


2. **Modified file**

   The modified file, obviously, refers to the after-change file.

   For uncommitted changes, it usually refers to the change-containing
   on-disk file.  But, for modification such as `delete`, an empty
   file will be used.

   For committed changes, the modified file usually comes from the
   SCM, but case where the modified file no longer exists, such as
   `delete`, an empty file will be used in its place.

There are two modes in which this tool can operate: <em>uncommitted
changes</em>, and <em>committed changes</em>.


- **Uncommitted Changes**

  If no revision information (-c) is provided, `diff-review` will
  produce a review for for all `untracked`, `unstaged` and
  `staged` files.

  An uncommitted change includes all modified files, as well as
  `untracked` files, that are in the repository.  By default, they will
  all be included in the generated review, but a command line option
  can disable reviewing of untracked files.

  For purposes of generating viewable diffs, there is no difference
  between `unstaged` and `staged`; the tool uses the current, on-disk,
  uncommited content.

- **Committed Changes**

  If revision information (-c) is provided, `diff-review` will produce
  a review for all the files changed in the specified revision.

# Usage

1. Clone this repository to any location on the computer.  For
purposes of this text, we shall assume it has been placed at `~/diff-review`.


2. Load the `aliases` file.

   This alias file is for Bash users.  Those using some other
   incompatible shell will have to provide their own translation.  Any
   submissions will be gladly accepted.

   `source ~/diff-review/scripts.d/aliases`

   This will provide two aliases in your current shell environment:
   `dr` and `vr`.  These directly reference the `diff-review` and
   `view-review` programs respectively, bypassing the need to update
   `${PATH}`.

   The examples below will use these aliases.

# Examples

These examples with use `emacs` as the source of changes to review.
Take the time now to go get a basic `emacs` source tree:

    git clone https://github.com/emacs-mirror/emacs.git


If you prefer to use the official site, it is here, but it is
extremely slow:


    git clone https://git.savannah.gnu.org/git/emacs.git


## Set aliases in your shell environment

  As shown above in the <em>Usage</em> section, load the aliases into
  your shell.

## View a single committed change

  The following command will generate diffs for a  25-year-old `emacs`
  change.

```
dr -c a3ba27daef3
```

That command will produce the following output on the console:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

  modify   src/ChangeLog
  modify   src/gmalloc.c

Changes:  committed [2 files, 249 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.111161
```

The lines beginning with `TkDiff` and `Meld` are commands that can be
executed to view the diffs.  But, in this case since `dr` was used,
`vr` can be run to load the viewer for the diff.

```
vr
```

When the program showing the menu of files that can be reviewed is
focused, pressing `Esc` will quit.


## Combine and view multiple changes

  The following command will generate diffs for a sequential range of
  emacs commits.

```
dr -c 4418a37c5df^..cb17a8bbf39
```

It will produce the following console output:


That command will produce the following output on the console, which
can be viewed by executing `vr`:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

  modify   admin/notes/unicode
  modify   doc/lispref/modes.texi
  modify   doc/lispref/parsing.texi
  modify   doc/lispref/positions.texi
  modify   lisp/comint.el
  modify   lisp/dired-x.el
  modify   lisp/emacs-lisp/easy-mmode.el
  modify   lisp/emacs-lisp/ring.el
  modify   lisp/international/mule-cmds.el
  modify   lisp/international/ucs-normalize.el
  modify   lisp/net/eww.el
  modify   lisp/net/rcirc.el
  modify   lisp/progmodes/gdb-mi.el
  modify   lisp/progmodes/php-ts-mode.el
  modify   lisp/subr.el
  modify   lisp/time.el
  modify   lisp/vc/log-edit.el
  modify   lisp/vc/vc.el
  modify   src/doc.c
  modify   src/editfns.c
  modify   test/lisp/comint-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/dom-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/international/mule-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/international/ucs-normalize-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/net/tramp-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-resources/fake-aspell-new.bash
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-aspell-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-hunspell-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-international-ispell-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-tests.el

Changes:  committed [30 files, 378 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.594228

```

## View uncommitted changes

This example will show how untracked, unstaged and staged changes are
processed.

Execute the following:

```
touch untracked
cat README README >readme
mv readme README
git rm config.bat
```

Now, run `dr`, which will produce the console output:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

   unstaged   README
     delete   config.bat
  untracked   untracked

Changes:  unstaged [1 files, 130 lines]  staged [1 files  384 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.116628
```

As ever, `vr` can be used to view the changes.

Next, stage the `README` file and re-generate the diffs with `dr`.

```
git add README

```

The console output will appear like this:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

     staged   README
     delete   config.bat
  untracked   untracked

Changes:  unstaged [0 files, 0 lines]  staged [2 files  514 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.115293

```

Finally, make another modification to `README` to show how its state
returns to `unstaged` after executing `dr`.

```
cp BUGS README
```

The console output will look like this:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

   unstaged   README
     delete   config.bat
  untracked   untracked

Changes:  unstaged [1 files, 274 lines]  staged [2 files  514 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.114766
```

## Clean up repository

Now that the examples are finished, you can delete the `emacs` clone.

# Advanced Usage

Invoking either `dr` or `vr` with `--help` will show the current set
options that the program takes.  Using these options will allow more
complex invocations -- such as naming the output, or putting it into a
different directory location.

- Claude-QT (pyqt6)

  This viewer program was entirely generated through conversations
  with Claude.ai.  When it is deemed to be working well-enough, it
  will likely become the default viewer, replacing TkDiff.

  The Help menu describes how to use the features of the program.

Commit message:

[view-review] Improve path handling for programs used by view-review
Details

 The pathnames used on different OSes are not the same for tools like
 tkdiff, meld, emacs and vim.  Different OSses (Mac, Windows, BSD,
 etc.), and even different Linux distributions, place these tools in
 different locations.

 To make this system more accommodating to these tools out-of-the-box,
 this change updates the software to search for these tools in several
 locations where they are known to reside.  If any individual tool
 cannot be found on in any of the known locations, it will not be put
 into the 'Viewer' menu

 Additionally, this change removes the experimental nature of the
 Claude-QT viewer, and sets it as the default viewer.

 This should facilitate running these tools on MacOS, and BSD (though
 actual testing has not yet been performed).  Additional work will be
 needed to support native Windows, though WSL2 may work now;
 additional testing (and possibly changes are needed).

Testing

  Meld was uninstalled from the test system, and it was no longer
  populated into the menu.

README.md, after:

# Software Prerequisites

- <code>python3</code>

  An executable named <code>python3</code> must be installed and on ${PATH}.

- <code>pyqt6</code>

This Python module must be installed to be able to generate the
Tcl/Tk-based menu used for viewing the generated diffs:

If this module is not installed, the `view-review` will stop
with an error indicating such.

On Ubuntu, this can be satisfied with:

    sudo apt install python3-pyqt6


# Supported Viewers

This system currently supports the following side-by-side diff viewers,
selectable from the <code>Viewer</code> menu.

- Claude-QT (Claude-generated, experimental, pyqt6)
- Emacs
- Meld
- TkDiff
- Vim

If any of Emacs, Meld, TkDiff or Vim cannot be found in commonly-used
install paths for that program, it will not be included in the
<code>Viewer</code> menu.


# Description / Terminology


Change is omnipresent in the software industry.  To help you manage
changes to source, this tool enables viewing of uncommitted and
committed changes in a Git repository.

Before going further, let us take a moment to understand the
terminology used herein to describe the constituent parts of a change.
Each file contained in a change always has two components:


1. **Base file**

    The base file refers to the original file, before modifications
    have been made.  In most cases, the base file comes from the SCM,
    but in some cases, such as an `add`, the base file does not
    exist in the SCM.  When the base file does not exist in the SCM,
    and empty file is used in its stead.


2. **Modified file**

   The modified file, obviously, refers to the after-change file.

   For uncommitted changes, it usually refers to the change-containing
   on-disk file.  But, for modification such as `delete`, an empty
   file will be used.

   For committed changes, the modified file usually comes from the
   SCM, but case where the modified file no longer exists, such as
   `delete`, an empty file will be used in its place.

There are two modes in which this tool can operate: <em>uncommitted
changes</em>, and <em>committed changes</em>.


- **Uncommitted Changes**

  If no revision information (-c) is provided, `diff-review` will
  produce a review for for all `untracked`, `unstaged` and
  `staged` files.

  An uncommitted change includes all modified files, as well as
  `untracked` files, that are in the repository.  By default, they will
  all be included in the generated review, but a command line option
  can disable reviewing of untracked files.

  For purposes of generating viewable diffs, there is no difference
  between `unstaged` and `staged`; the tool uses the current, on-disk,
  uncommited content.

- **Committed Changes**

  If revision information (-c) is provided, `diff-review` will produce
  a review for all the files changed in the specified revision.

# Usage

1. Clone this repository to any location on the computer.  For
purposes of this text, we shall assume it has been placed at `~/diff-review`.


2. Load the `aliases` file.

   This alias file is for Bash users.  Those using some other
   incompatible shell will have to provide their own translation.  Any
   submissions will be gladly accepted.

   `source ~/diff-review/scripts.d/aliases`

   This will provide two aliases in your current shell environment:
   `dr` and `vr`.  These directly reference the `diff-review` and
   `view-review` programs respectively, bypassing the need to update
   `${PATH}`.

   The examples below will use these aliases.

# Examples

These examples with use `emacs` as the source of changes to review.
Take the time now to go get a basic `emacs` source tree:

    git clone https://github.com/emacs-mirror/emacs.git


If you prefer to use the official site, it is here, but it is
extremely slow:


    git clone https://git.savannah.gnu.org/git/emacs.git


## Set aliases in your shell environment

  As shown above in the <em>Usage</em> section, load the aliases into
  your shell.

## View a single committed change

  The following command will generate diffs for a  25-year-old `emacs`
  change.

```
dr -c a3ba27daef3
```

That command will produce the following output on the console:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

  modify   src/ChangeLog
  modify   src/gmalloc.c

Changes:  committed [2 files, 249 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.111161
```

The line beginning with `view-review` iss a commands that can be
executed to view the diffs (or, the alias `vr` can also be used).

```
vr
```

When the program showing the menu of files that can be reviewed is
focused, pressing `Esc` will quit.


## Combine and view multiple changes

  The following command will generate diffs for a sequential range of
  emacs commits.

```
dr -c 4418a37c5df^..cb17a8bbf39
```

It will produce the following console output:


That command will produce the following output on the console, which
can be viewed by executing `vr`:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

  modify   admin/notes/unicode
  modify   doc/lispref/modes.texi
  modify   doc/lispref/parsing.texi
  modify   doc/lispref/positions.texi
  modify   lisp/comint.el
  modify   lisp/dired-x.el
  modify   lisp/emacs-lisp/easy-mmode.el
  modify   lisp/emacs-lisp/ring.el
  modify   lisp/international/mule-cmds.el
  modify   lisp/international/ucs-normalize.el
  modify   lisp/net/eww.el
  modify   lisp/net/rcirc.el
  modify   lisp/progmodes/gdb-mi.el
  modify   lisp/progmodes/php-ts-mode.el
  modify   lisp/subr.el
  modify   lisp/time.el
  modify   lisp/vc/log-edit.el
  modify   lisp/vc/vc.el
  modify   src/doc.c
  modify   src/editfns.c
  modify   test/lisp/comint-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/dom-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/international/mule-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/international/ucs-normalize-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/net/tramp-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-resources/fake-aspell-new.bash
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-aspell-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-hunspell-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-international-ispell-tests.el
  modify   test/lisp/textmodes/ispell-tests/ispell-tests.el

Changes:  committed [30 files, 378 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.594228

```

## View uncommitted changes

This example will show how untracked, unstaged and staged changes are
processed.

Execute the following:

```
touch untracked
cat README README >readme
mv readme README
git rm config.bat
```

Now, run `dr`, which will produce the console output:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

   unstaged   README
     delete   config.bat
  untracked   untracked

Changes:  unstaged [1 files, 130 lines]  staged [1 files  384 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.116628
```

As ever, `vr` can be used to view the changes.

Next, stage the `README` file and re-generate the diffs with `dr`.

```
git add README

```

The console output will appear like this:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

     staged   README
     delete   config.bat
  untracked   untracked

Changes:  unstaged [0 files, 0 lines]  staged [2 files  514 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.115293

```

Finally, make another modification to `README` to show how its state
returns to `unstaged` after executing `dr`.

```
cp BUGS README
```

The console output will look like this:

```
diff-review:  /home/thutt/review/default

   unstaged   README
     delete   config.bat
  untracked   untracked

Changes:  unstaged [1 files, 274 lines]  staged [2 files  514 lines]
Viewer :  view-review -R /home/thutt/review -r default
Elapsed:  0:00:00.114766
```

## Clean up repository

Now that the examples are finished, you can delete the `emacs` clone.

# Advanced Usage

Invoking either `dr` or `vr` with `--help` will show the current set
options that the program takes.  Using these options will allow more
complex invocations -- such as naming the output, or putting it into a
different directory location.

- Claude-QT (pyqt6)

  This viewer program was entirely generated through conversations
  with Claude.ai.  When it is deemed to be working well-enough, it
  will likely become the default viewer, replacing TkDiff.

  The Help menu describes how to use the features of the program.
